>> Lucas Ruebbelke: This
is a pretty quick module.
It's just a few slides, but
I wanna put it out there because it is
incredibly valuable for moving from this
mutable mindset to an immutable mindset.
And interestingly enough,
once you make that switch mentally,
it's just a matter of switching
really how you approach these, or
kind of the operators that you use.
>> Lucas Ruebbelke: So
when we look at this code right here,
we're using state dot push.
So what is happening?
It's taking the state collection, if you
will, and it's pushing something into it,
so it's mutating it.
This is a mutable operation.
>> Lucas Ruebbelke: Here's another one.
Let's say you have a collection, and
you wanna update a specific
item in the collection.
Well, you're basically looping
over the state collection,
finding the thing that you want, chopping
out the old one, putting the new one in,
mutable.
>> Lucas Ruebbelke: Same thing for delete.
Looping over the collection,
finding the thing that you want out,
deleting it from the collection, mutable.
And so,
these are things that I've done for years.
Things like array.push, that's common.
I've probably done this 10,000 times.
>> Lucas Ruebbelke: The problem is,
these things mutate the collection or
the object that you're working on.
And so, the question is,
how do we move from mutable to immutable?
So there is a really handy
method on object called freeze.
And it's interesting, a lot of people
do not talk about it very often,
but it's pretty nice.
And it's object.freeze.
And so essentially what it does
is it freezes an object and
it prevents stuff from being changed.
We can add properties to it, take it
away or change existing properties.
So this is really handy,
this is if you use in GRX what they'll do,
is actually if you are in development
mode, is they will freeze the store,
so everything that you
do has to be mutable.
So this is just kind of, I would say,
training wheels, if you will.
You can use this is a development
context of I'm doing these things.
And it will catch you,
you're mutating the thing, stop doing it.
All right, so let's look over create,
update and delete.
How do we go from mutable to immutable?
So kind of a hint to this is,
if you go look into MDN,
that its pretty clear,
kind of the marker here is,
instead returns a new something and
that's what you want.
I need to do this thing,
give me a new version of it.
So in the case of dot push,
instead what you do is use concat.
And so what it does is it
take in existing collection,
the item you wanna add and
returns them as a new collection.
And so essentially it used to merge two or
more arrays, but
it does not change the existing arrays.
Super easy, so now what you need to know
is that instead of acting on something,
you're actually getting something back
which then you make an assignment.
So, here, kind of shorthand to this,
is you can use the spread array,
which will expand that,
whatever that is into a new array and
then add this last piece to it.
So this is kind of shorthand for
this is spread operator and
we're dropping in the payload.
So with that said,
instead of pushing something into array,
merge the two arrays together and
get a new one.
Update, how do you update
an item in a collection?
Well, first step is with map.
So if we look at the MDN,
the map method creates a new array.
And so what it does is it loops over,
performs some operation on a collection,
and then just returns a new collection.
So that's step one is
we're getting a new array.
We also use object.assign to copy all the
innumerable properties off of an object,
of one or more objects.
And then, low and
behold it will return the target object.
So essentially what we're doing is, we're
saying go find the thing you wanna update,
use object.assign to create a new version
of this, and then return a brand new array
that has this new object in it, very easy.
And last but not least, delete.
So, the filter method, let's see it here,
creates a new array with all
the elements that pass the test.
So if you wanna filter something out,
well you don't have to delete it,
just loop over and just say, this is
the criteria in which this thing will
get back into the new collection, done.
Concat, map, filter, and object.assign.
That is how you move from
mutable to immutable.
All right, so with that said,
let's just take a quick five minute break.
Shake our legs out.
And we will come back and
talk about reactive forms, yes.
>> Student 1: Does
immutability have something to do
with the performance of the app?
Because you are saying that
an object is immutable,
then you are assigning a new object.
Then you edit or
copy a value into an object.
>> Lucas Ruebbelke: Mm-hm.
>> Student 1: Actually,
the computer is also doing the same thing,
right?
Because you would have to assign,
you are not overwriting an existing value.
I mean depending upon the language and
the permutation, but
you're not overwriting an existing value.
You are just assigning new memory and then
editing.
>> Lucas Ruebbelke: I would say that,
and I'm not a computer scientist,
I just play one on Frontend Masters.
Is that you have multiple objects,
or a single object with multiple
pointers towards it, so if the pointers
are still there, that's one concern.
And so for instance, so
you have the JVM, what's the other one?
What's dot net?
>> Student 1: CLR.
>> Lucas Ruebbelke: CLR, and so
they're trying to optimize it, and I think
they do probably a pretty good job, but
at the same time is if you
need to undo something, or
let's say having to go through and process
like what has changed and compare it.
So, first is in the case
of dirty checking.
It's much easier to say this
thing is clearly different
because the pointers have changed.
>> Student 1: Okay.
>> Lucas Ruebbelke: In other words saying,
okay, has this changed or not?
You're just comparing the pointers.
If it is, you just swap them.
But and I think one of the problems
with AngularJS is in their digest cycle,
what they were doing is looping through
and comparing every single property.
And that took a lot of time.
So instead of doing a deep comparison,
it's much faster to say we know this has
changed cuz the pointer's different,
and let's just swap it.
>> Lucas Ruebbelke: Does that
make sense?
>> Student 1: Yeah,
yeah.
>> Lucas Ruebbelke: And so
it's kind of counter-intuitive of, wait
a second, I'm just returning a new one?
Isn't that,
>> Lucas Ruebbelke: You're just getting
this new thing, and I think people kinda
make this mental thing that would be,
I take my car in to get a car wash and
they just give me a new car.
And it's not quite how it works is that,
once computers are very efficient.
But the fact is, we're not having
to go through and take two cars and
compare them piece by piece by piece, and
saying, is anything changed in this car,
because if it has,
I'm getting the new one.
And that's kinda the big difference.